[Series 4 Paper 1 Title]

[Authors]

[Abstract]

[Graphical Abstract]

[Background to Malaria]

[Discovery of Series 4 and subsequent development story]

Results and Discussion

**Synthetic Approaches to the TP Series**

[Summary of Organic Synthesis]
This is not a real change, it's just a demo to show how PR's work.

**Modification of the Triazolopyrazine Core**

Modification of the triazole ring was explored through the synthesis of
the imidazo[1,2-a]pyrazine MMV669846 and the imidazo[1,5-a]pyrazine
MMV670250 and comparison with the parent [1,2,4]triazole[4,3-a]pyrazine
MMV639565 (Figure X). Such changes gave moderate decreases in potency
(vs. PfNF54) and, particularly for MMV670250, a significant worsening in
metabolic stability. The reasonable potency of MMV669846 suggests that
the 2-position of this compound could be a point of attachment for
functional groups (*e.g.,* biotinylated chains) that might assist in
mechanism of action studies. The ring system in MMV669846 is the same as
that in the similar-looking Novartis series based around
KAI409,[10.1038/nature12782] but the mechanism of action of that
compound targets PI4K and not PfATP4.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenSourceMalaria/OSMSeries4Paper1/master/Schemes/Core%20Mods%20Triazole.png)
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenSourceMalaria/OSMSeries4Paper1/master/Schemes/Core%20Mods%20Triazole.png" width="300px">

**Figure X**. Effect on Potency and Metabolic Stability of Altering the
Triazole Portion of the Triazolopyrazine Core (Units)

Modifications to the pyrazine ring generally gave reductions in potency
(Figure X) – several aromatic and aliphatic analogs have been evaluated.
The transposed analog MMV672942 retained some activity (though the ether
analog MMV672939 did not).

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenSourceMalaria/OSMSeries4Paper1/master/Schemes/Core%20Mods%20Pyrazine%20Combined.png" width="300px">

**Figure X**. Effect on Potency of Alterations in the Pyrazine Ring of
the Triazolopyrazine Core.

**Modifications of the Triazolopyrazine Core Substituents**

With the triazolopyrazine scaffold established as the leading
heterocyclic core for this series of compounds, variations were made in
the substituents and their attachment pattern. Several compounds were
evaluated bearing substitution in the 8-position (as a potential block
for aldehyde oxidase activity, see below); only the analog possessing a
reactive α-chloro azaaromatic group (MMV668823) retained any significant
potency. Analogs have not yet been evaluated with corresponding
substituents in the 6-position. However, several compounds with
transposed side chains were synthesized which in most cases exhibited
reduced potency compared to closely related compounds lacking such a
change. The exceptions were compounds containing ether-linked chains
with a one-or two-carbon spacer, for example MMV670945 (though this
compound displayed rapid metabolism in a rat liver microsome assay. In
general substitution in the 5-position was prioritized for follow-up.


<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenSourceMalaria/OSMSeries4Paper1/master/Schemes/TP%20Core%20Substituents%20Combined.png" width="300px">

**Figure X**. Modifications to the Pyrazine Substituents and Comparisons
with Closely Related Compounds (RLM Cl units are mL/min/kg)

Many compounds in this series displaying high potency possess aromatic
substituents directly linked to the triazole ring in the TP core. Nine
compounds were synthesized possessing aliphatic substituents in this
position, or aromatic groups linked via a heteroatom, or a pyrazole. All
exhibited greatly reduced potency compared to analogous compounds,
though further exploration of aliphatic and heteroaromatic groups in
this position remain a promising line of enquiry given that there is
significant unexplored chemical space and that a reduction in the number
of aromatic groups in the TP series should help increase compound
solubility. However, priority was given to further optimization of
aromatic functionality directly attached to the triazole in this
position.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenSourceMalaria/OSMSeries4Paper1/master/Schemes/Cycloaliphatic%20Triazole%20Subst%20v2.png" width="300px">

**Figure X**. Variation in the Structure of the Aromatic Substituent on
the Triazole Ring of the TP Core.

**Variation in Ether-linked Substituent in the 5-Position**

Several analogs were explored with variation in the ether substituent at
the 5-position, while retaining the 4-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl group
directly attached to the triazole ring (Figure X). Potent compounds were
observed with phenethylether side chains, but given the propensity for
such compounds to act as metabolic hotspots significant variation was
explored in the structure of this substituent. In general a range of
variations was tolerated, including those with polar functional groups
in the benzylic position (of note is the alcohol MMV670947 at 24 nM and
the amine MMV670437 at 44 nM). The primary amine analog of MMV670437
(MMV671651) remained potent (as did the morpholine analog MMV671647 to a
lesser extent), while the monomethyl analog MMV670763 exhibited greatly
reduced potency. A single analog with substitution on both carbon atoms
of the phenethyl methylenes (MMV672626) exhibited low potency. Side
chain lengths other than three atoms generally gave lower potencies. The
2-naphthol analog MMV670659 gave reasonable potency but poor stability
in a rat liver microsome assay (we lack the number). While not potent
the phenol-substituted analog MMV669784 exhibited favourable metabolic
clearance rates (see below).

**Figure X**. Measured Potencies of TP Analogs with 4-(CHF2)O-phenyl
Attached Directly to the Triazole Ring with Variation in the Ether
Substituent in the 5-Position (Assay for OSM-S-260 possibly different
from others)

